# Content Based Image Retrieval with Relevancy feedback
This system is used to retrieve images from a database using a variation of weighted metrics based on manually input user feedback.

## Usage
This interface can be sub-divided into two separate windows. The initial window able to view upon startup of the application will be referred to as the ‘Main Window’ – upon searching for similar images, there will be a secondary window which becomes visible to the user which will be referred to as the
‘Display Window’.

Upon starting the executable, the Main window will be displayed to the user with a collection of image names populating the list box on the left side of the screen. Images names are populated from local storage in a folder entitled ‘images’ within the same directory as the executable launches. Here a user can click to select and preview an image contained within the local database. Once a user has identified an image of interest, they then have the option to view a more detailed view of the image by selecting the ‘View Details’ button which will open the image in the default viewer within the operating system.

If the user wishes to search for similar images, they have three search methods to choose from – ‘Color’ ‘Intensity’, or ‘Color_Intensity’. By selecting the Color option, the user will be presented with images in the database most like the previewed image based on the calculated similarity. Intensity will return images with similar intensity histograms generated by flattening each RGB pixel to an intensity value based on the following formula:
 
*I* = 0.299*R* + 0.587*B* + 0.114*G*

Selecting ‘Color_Intensity’ will use a combination of both aforementioned features along with a relevancy feedback system to improve search performance. Upon searching in this mode, the user will be presented with each return image as well as a selectable checkbox labeled ‘Relevant’. By selecting the checkbox under a single image, the user will mark that image as relevant. Once all desired images have been selected, the user can select the button displayed at the top labeled ‘Refine Search’ to update the search parameters. This will adjust the weight of the available features and retrieve relevant items more accurately based upon the updated weights. This process can be repeated indefinitely; however, once a user goes back to the main window and selects the ‘Search’ button – all history relating to relevant images will be cleared and the weights will be reset.

Once the user has selected the most appropriate method by which to search, they may select the ‘Search’ button. This will spawn the Display Window which will show the user a preview of the image that was queried along with the search mode that was used. At the bottom of the window will be a grid of twenty images retrieved from the database ranked in order from most to least similar (left to right, then top to bottom). On this page, the user can navigate up or down pages by selecting the ‘Prev’ or ‘Next’ buttons at the bottom of the page.

If desired, a user may update the search parameters (either image or mode) on the Main Window prior to closing the Display Window. The Display window will be updated with the new parameter selected by the user. The user may also close the Display window and reload a new search from the Main Window; however, if the Main Window is closed, the user will need to re-launch the executable if any additional searches are needed. The user may close out of all windows to shut down the GUI.